what's up everybody I'm Brendon hover
welcome to hundred days of SEO I've
radically changed my life in my career
with SEO the goal of 100 days of SEO is
to help you do the same here in this
video today I'm going to help you build
out the best possible WordPress website
for SEO let's do it all right what is up
we are in my computer let's talk about
kicking all of the ass at WordPress SEO
I've got something special for you if
you watch until the end of this video
I'm gonna make a pretty special offer to
help you for free with your website so
make sure you watch all the way to the
end of the video if you're new here I'm
Brendan Hufford the founder of SEO for
the rest of us and 100 days of SEO I'm
gonna leverage everything I know about
from my own work my own sites that I've
personally ranked all of my clients both
my personal clients and my clients is
the SEO director of click studios and
also all of my expertise as a former
teacher spent 10 years in the classroom
and all around a pretty regular dude I'm
gonna leverage all of that today to help
you because in the next two minutes
you're going to learn the best framework
for SEO success the best WordPress
plugins for SEO how to do permalinks
structure the best theme for WordPress
SEO WordPress SEO performance and
WordPress SEO hosting tips so much
WordPress SEO
you might even wager to say all of the
WordPress SEO now why are we talking
about WordPress SEO well 34 is the
percentage of the internet that uses
WordPress and 15 of the top 100 websites
in the world runs on WordPress now
that's significant it's only 15 of the
top 100 but when you consider the other
top 100 are Google Facebook Twitter
sites that could not possibly these are
apps they could not possibly run on
WordPress the fact that 15% of the top
100 that's extremely significant so
let's dive right in what is the best SEO
framework when it comes to WordPress and
this is what I personally call the I am
SEO framework so the I and I am is
intent figuring out what people want and
why do they want it and then creating
content that perfectly matches that
intent next is the asset like how are we
going to give that
to them this is typically on a website
in the form of articles the medium where
that those articles will live is our
website and then finally the bonus is
how do we make it more relevant and as
you can tell from the icon there
this means links but today we're gonna
talk about creating a badass WordPress
SEO website to help you rank higher in
search and the way we do that is both by
mastering the intent but also figuring
out what our assets are and mostly our
medium so let's talk about the best SEO
plugins is a question I get asked all
the time
Brendan what's the best plugin for
WordPress SEO and there's none at least
not how you think of them cuz here's
what most people think about WordPress
SEO they think that it's supposed to be
just this hey here's my Yoast plug-in or
my whatever other ones and I make the
light screen and that does SEO for me
and that is a hundred percent false most
of these things you're trying to turn
green most of these little stoplights
are trash not only do they not correlate
there's a great study by HRF that proves
definitively none of these things
actually correlate with ranking compared
to links compared to site Authority all
of that other stuff this plugin will not
help you rank here's just me breaking it
down all the ones with red X's are dumb
but the green ones are helpful did you
put your key phrase in the title aka are
you talking about what you're talking
about don't use something clever in your
title be very clear are you using
outbound links of course you should be
linking out to other helpful resources
are you linking to other things on your
own website well of course you should be
doing that and is it something you've
written about before on your website
well this is what's dumb about this is
that you should reuse key phrases in
different contexts in different articles
and that's again all of this is stupid
putting your key phrase in the first
paragraph is so dumb that's the worst
copy in the world nobody wants to read a
sentence where it's like have you ever
thought about you know WordPress SEO
like of course they have their get tough
anyways don't don't waste your time with
this plug-in here's here's what the best
plug-ins for WordPress SEO are these are
performance plugins these are my two
favorite they're created by the same
people
this is aught optimized and async
JavaScript these
going to radically speed up your website
and I faster website is better for
humans and I would argue extremely
important for ranking so let's talk a
little bit more about performance when I
think about performance I love to use
there's a couple different things
there's GT metrics but here's just a
look at Google PageSpeed insights now
how am I getting a 98% score on desktop
well it's using those performance
plugins it's also having a really good
theme which we'll talk about here in a
moment and it's also about having a
really good hosting insight architecture
which we'll also talk about now I'm not
doing great on mobile I could do a lot
of things better for mobile it's just
kind of the trade-off of where I'm at
right now in my personal website I'm not
really trying to rank Brendan Hufford
Kampf or anything significant if I had a
website that got like 80 or 90% mobile
traffic then I would care a lot more
about that and I would probably change
up my design but what I love about
Google PageSpeed insights is it tells
you you can actually see how it paints
your website in layers you can see
what's causing issues what's happening
what you know what's going on and those
plugins will clean up quite a bit of it
especially deferring off screen images
everything like that some of these
slides you can notice the colors change
these come from the actual course SEO
for the rest of us which we'll be
opening up here shortly as well if you
want to check that out you go to Brendan
Hufford comm slash newsletter to get
notified when that opens next let's talk
about hosting I mentioned that's one of
the things that makes my website really
fast so why does hosting matter for SEO
again it makes your website super fast
it'll be up more often and it will be
more secure because a lot of us are
using shared WordPress hosting this is
your Bluehost your GoDaddy your
Hostgator they're cramming as many web
sites as they can on a server and they
don't care about quality they care about
volume they're filled with upsells and
hidden fees and if your site gets really
popular they actually slow your website
down until you pay them more they kind
of hold you at ransom shared hosting is
terrible if you're serious about running
an online business or having a website
that performs well in search so that's
why I use flywheel flywheels where I
host all of my most important WordPress
websites I recommend you check them out
as well you've got 100 days of SEO comm
slash flywheel to check them out or you
can just Google
will hosting and you'll find your way
there as well next is permalinks
structure so your permalink structure is
literally what your urls look like now I
recommend option one here where you have
your website and then just the page name
or post name that goes after it that's
it it's a very clean short and simple
permalink structure but the other option
is to put categories in there now
sometimes that makes sense for instance
the other day my buddy Pat Flynn asked
you know they're having a debate
internally how to structure their URLs
should it be email marketing is like the
category and then beginners guide or
email marketing as the category and then
beginners guide the email marketing you
know he was wondering is there gonna be
a penalty for doubling your keywords up
and kind of stuffing more in there and I
just said the first is preferred but the
second isn't gonna hurt you because
Google knows that email marketing is an
important part of the website so you
know there's really no reason to put it
in twice John Doherty you should also
check out I'll put a link in the
description he's on an upcoming friend's
Friday of a hundred days of SEO one of
the smartest SEO people I know also said
there's no penalty but it's not gonna
help by putting more keywords in that
URL and it you know the shorter is more
linkable this is a very the second one
that Pat has here is a very confusing
URL for a human to like look at or share
and then I did a quick HRF analysis a
trust is the SEO tool that I love and
use with on my own sites and also all my
clients if you look at all the URL
structures here nothing stands out right
we have optinmonster using the like
domain and then just title MailChimp is
the domain and then the title you see
that HubSpot has a marketing category in
there campaign monitor has slash
resources slash then the title
wpbeginner is showcase there's nothing
in there that really shows anything is
favored in terms of search when it comes
to permalink structure now permalinks
also lend themselves to site
architecture site architecture
absolutely matters for SEO for indexing
ranking and also for humans I like to
silo my content this is a great graphic
from web risks I try to silo my content
as much as I can and create content
clusters now when you're siloing your
your content this typically makes more
sense in terms of like if I have a bunch
of locations we should silo that we
should link them together we should link
together all of our different
instructors and things like that
now I prefer content clusters not that
they're against silos or in
comparison to them this long definition
from HubSpot is much better explained
with this graphic from the future from
from the future it's their name awesome
SEO and design agency out of
Philadelphia if you look most web sites
just look like this where you just have
tons of content on the blog and wherever
else now I've used this on all of my own
websites and my clients websites what I
found is across all of that work that
the subtopics not only should be
optimized for longtail keywords but also
for different types of intent whether
they're at this general level of
awareness or their product away or
solution aware I take my levels of
awareness from Eugene Schwartz
breakthrough advertising it's a great
direct marketing copywriting book and
what you end up with is something like
this where you have all these really
nicely organized content clusters topic
clusters and when these are linked
together in this way with the subtopics
related to like a pillar page or kind of
an epic guide in the middle when one
does better they all do better the last
thing is just really making sure that
the content depth is where it needs to
be we're not burying the content super
deep on the website if it takes five or
six clicks to get to something I like to
use screaming frog to kind of crawl the
site and see how much things are buried
for instance there's stuff on Brendon
Huffer calm that's super buried and then
I really need to surface and figure out
some better ways probably by putting
categories and things on the homepage in
a way that makes sense but this is super
helpful because anything that gets
buried on your website will also get
buried in search so building the best
possible WordPress website for SEO I
always think about themes now I just let
the professionals do this I use
studiopress themes on almost all of my
websites you can check them out hundred
days of SEO calm slash studio press I
love their themes if you go to Brendan
Humphrey calm
that's a studiopress theme the same
theme is over on photo MBA net one of my
kind of successful side projects I would
highly recommend checking out both both
of those would also again hundred days
of seo.com slash studio press will get
you there they perform extremely well
when I have the plugins and everything
in there and really good hosting they
perform really really well in search
they're also great for users I had
compliments on it from actual designers
and I'm like that's cool I didn't do it
it's just a stock studiopress theme so
they're they're incredibly professional
as well and I love that know if you want
to learn about how to put all this
together and you want to learn how to
create content that ranks check out the
one ranking away challenge we're getting
tons of really really strong feedback on
it you see Amy and Ricky here just a lot
of good reviews and also seeing a lot of
results which is what I like I'm looking
forward to putting out some case studies
this is completely free 30-day challenge
you can check it out at 100 days of
seo.com right there on the homepage go
ahead and sign up again I use flywheel
for all of my most important WordPress
websites you can check them out 100 days
of seo.com slash flywheel and I use pod
Reacher all of my blog posts all of the
show notes you see over at 100 days of
SEO comm are done by pod Reacher now I
promise you more than just an internet
hi-5 here I promise you something great
if you watch until the end and and kept
up with this video now what WordPress
website are you working on right now let
me know in the comments below and I'll
review the first 10 with some quick just
SEO tips something from this video if
you're working on a WordPress website
and you need help and you want to know
what your next steps should because it's
really what all we want to know we just
want to know what's the next thing I
need to do I don't need 50 steps this
video is probably really overwhelming
cuz I give you everything so I like
drinking from a firehose but what is
hi-5 gif is getting overwhelming leave
your URL below and I'll make sure I'll
give you some quick feedback that will
really make a difference on your website
I've been running Hufford don't forget
to work hard be nice people and don't
get too lost trying to create something
that matters
[Music]